# Coursera Getting and Cleaning Data Class Assignments
This script processes data from the [Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones) tests. It is responsible for stitching together data from the multiple files that were generated by this experiment into a single, tidy data set.

In doing so it calculates mean of the mean and standard deviation measurement for each subject/activity combination, and reduces the number of measurements from the 561 different values per observation.

## Data ##
The input data is available [here](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip).

To run the script that data must be extracted from the ZIP file and the and the 'UCI HAR Dataset' directory must be renamed 'data' and moved to the working directory.

##Execution##
With the data directory within the working directory, load the "run\_analysis.R" script into the working environment. Then execute 'run\_analysis(<\output\_filename>)', where <\output\_filename> is the name of the file to write the clean/tidy output of the process to.

### Steps
The execution of the script does the following in order:

 1. Loads a data set from train/test.
 2. Annotates the columns with labels from 'features.txt'.
 3. Removes columns that are not std deviation or mean values (do not end in -std()/-mean()). 
 4. Adds a column containing subject data from the subject file.
 5. Adds the numerical activity identifier column from the 'y' file.
 6. Maps the activity name and overwrites the numerical indentifier.
 7. Concatenates processed train and test data sets
 8. Groups and calculates measurement means by subject and activity.
 9. Cleans/changes column names to human readable.